README.md, before:

# open6DOFcontroller
## Gordon Keller
### 10/23/21

*** An open-source 6DOF (Degrees Of Freedom) controller. ***

This project leverages several different packages to enable 6DOF input akin to the closed-source/proprietary hardware 3D Connexion SpaceMouse.

In this original form, it combines:
* FIRMWARE: The QMK Firmware project (link) -- TBD
* ELECTRONICS: KiCAD (link)
* HARDWARE/MODELS: Autodesk Fusion360 (link), though intention to eventually port to FreeCAD.

This controller is based on hall-effect sensors. The first pass of algorithms developed to convert magnetic signals to 6DOF aren't very sophistocated and could use a major rework.
Theoretically, it can be used to control any 3D virtualized perspective/object. Eventually, I want to use it to fly the Lynchpin drone (link) in simulation and in IRL too ;)
I've included in this first installment a driver written for Fusion360 camera view control as an example useage. This is written using the Fusion360 Scripting API.

The outputs of the one-handed module are given in either XYZ-translation + WIJK-Quaternion ("pose-mode") or XYZ-translation + Roll/Pitch/Yaw ("euler-mode"). 

Some people might not like the 6DOF with one hand control, so a fork of this repo (3DOF-3DOF) should be created eventually which splits the device in two for use with both hands. This method involves less signal processing but requires multiple PCBs.

In-depth plan TBD! - gribgrob_k

[The main bodies of the V0.1 design](imgs/o6DOFc_V0.1.png)

TODO:
1. Change discrete HES to 3-axis packages using a flat PCB
2. Update CAD to be compatible with the new PCB design
3. Port output values from example Fusion script to the dedicated MCU (arduino initially)
4. Develop QMK-side of the device

Commit message:

Updated to-dos to reflect first edition of the flex pcb done

README.md, after:

# open6DOFcontroller
## Gordon Keller
### 10/23/21

*** An open-source 6DOF (Degrees Of Freedom) controller. ***

This project leverages several different packages to enable 6DOF input akin to the closed-source/proprietary hardware 3D Connexion SpaceMouse.

In this original form, it combines:
* FIRMWARE: The QMK Firmware project (link) -- TBD
* ELECTRONICS: KiCAD (link)
* HARDWARE/MODELS: Autodesk Fusion360 (link), though intention to eventually port to FreeCAD.

This controller is based on hall-effect sensors. The first pass of algorithms developed to convert magnetic signals to 6DOF aren't very sophistocated and could use a major rework.
Theoretically, it can be used to control any 3D virtualized perspective/object. Eventually, I want to use it to fly the Lynchpin drone (link) in simulation and in IRL too ;)
I've included in this first installment a driver written for Fusion360 camera view control as an example useage. This is written using the Fusion360 Scripting API.

The outputs of the one-handed module are given in either XYZ-translation + WIJK-Quaternion ("pose-mode") or XYZ-translation + Roll/Pitch/Yaw ("euler-mode"). 

Some people might not like the 6DOF with one hand control, so a fork of this repo (3DOF-3DOF) should be created eventually which splits the device in two for use with both hands. This method involves less signal processing but requires multiple PCBs.

In-depth plan TBD! - gribgrob_k

[The main bodies of the V0.1 design](imgs/o6DOFc_V0.1.png)

TO-DO:
High-priority:
1. Validate first version of the flex PCB
2. Finish start-up calibration sequence
3. Port data processing to fusion script for proof-of-concept

Low-priority:
1. Port output values from example Fusion script to the dedicated MCU (arduino initially)
2. Develop QMK-side of the device
